docs/linting.rst, before:

========
Linting!
========

Help
====

::

    $ dennis-cmd lint --help

This will list the availabe linters and codes, the variable formats and
any additional options available.


Summary
=======

dennis can lint your translated .po files for Python formatting token
issues::

    $ dennis-cmd lint messages.po


Produces output like this::

    (dennis) (M=3b9e7) saturn ~/mozilla/kitsune> dennis-cmd lint locale/it/
    LC_MESSAGES/messages.po
    dennis-cmd version 0.3.3
    >>> Working on: /home/willkg/mozilla/kitsune/locale/it/LC_MESSAGES/mess
    ages.po
    Error: mismatched: invalid variables: %(domain)s
    msgid: Did you know that %(answerer)s is a Firefox user just like you?
    Get started helping other Firefox users by <a href="https://%(host)s/qu
    estions?filter=unsolved"> browsing questions</a> -- you might just make
    someone's day!
    msgstr: Lo sai che %(answerer)s è un utente di Firefox proprio come te?
    Puoi aiutare anche tu gli altri utenti: <a href="https://%(domain)s/que
    stions?filter=unsolved">cerca tra le domande</a> e potrai fare felice u
    no di loro!

    Warning: mismatched: missing variables: %(host)s
    msgid: Did you know that %(answerer)s is a Firefox user just like you?
    Get started helping other Firefox users by <a href="https://%(host)s/qu
    estions?filter=unsolved"> browsing questions</a> -- you might just make
    someone's day!
    msgstr: Lo sai che %(answerer)s è un utente di Firefox proprio come te?
    Puoi aiutare anche tu gli altri utenti: <a href="https://%(domain)s/que
    stions?filter=unsolved">cerca tra le domande</a> e potrai fare felice u
    no di loro!

    Warning: mismatched: missing variables: {0}
    msgid: {0} question
    msgstr[0]: domanda

    Warning: mismatched: missing variables: {0}
    msgid: {0} question
    msgid_plural: {0} questions
    msgstr[1]: domande

    Warning: mismatched: missing variables: {0}
    msgid: {0} answer
    msgstr[0]: risposta

    Warning: mismatched: missing variables: {0}
    msgid: {0} answer
    msgid_plural: {0} answers
    msgstr[1]: risposte

    Warning: mismatched: missing variables: {0}
    msgid: {0} solution
    msgstr[0]: soluzione

    Warning: mismatched: missing variables: {0}
    msgid: {0} solution
    msgid_plural: {0} solutions
    msgstr[1]: soluzioni

    Error: mismatched: invalid variables: {group}
    msgid: Are you sure you want to remove {user} from the document contrib
    utors?
    msgstr: Rimuovere l'utente {user} dai collaboratori per il documento {g
    roup}?

    Totals
      Warnings:     7
      Errors:       2


This runs multiple lint rules on all the strings in the ``.po`` file
generating a list of errors and a list of warnings.

Wait, but that's ugly and hard to read! If you install ``blessings``, it
comes colorized and really easy to parse. All hail blessings!


Warnings and Errors
===================

What's a warning?
-----------------

Warnings indicate the translated string is either outdated or a poor
translation, but the string is fine in the sense that it won't kick
up an error in production.

For example, say the original string has a variable, but the
translated string doesn't use that variable.

That's not great and probably means the translated string needs to be
updated, but it won't throw an error in production.


What's an error?
----------------

Errors indicate problems with the translated string that will cause
an error to be thrown. These should get fixed pronto.

For example, when the translated string has a Python variable that's
not in the original string. When this string is interpolated, it will
kick up a Python error. That causes the software to die, users to be
unhappy, tires to go flat, people to work on weekends, mass hysteria,
etc. No one likes that. I don't like that. You probably don't like
that, either.


Table of Warnings and errors
----------------------------

+------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Code | Description                                                           |
+======+=======================================================================+
| E101 | Malformed variable missing type                                       |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | Only checks pythonpercent variables.                                  |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | Example (Python)::                                                    |
|      |                                                                       |
|      |     Error: malformed variables: %(count)                              |
|      |     msgid: "%(count)s view"                                           |
|      |     msgstr: "%(count) view"                                           |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | >>> "%(count) view" % {"count": 5}                                    |
|      | Traceback (most recent call last):                                    |
|      |   File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>                                 |
|      | ValueError: unsupported format character 'v' (0x76) at index 9        |
|      | >>>                                                                   |
|      |                                                                       |
+------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| E102 | Malformed variable missing right curly-brace                          |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | For example ``{foo`` with missing ``}``.                              |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | Only checks pythonformat variables.                                   |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | Example (Python)::                                                    |
|      |                                                                       |
|      |     Error: malformed variables: {foo bar baz                          |
|      |     msgid: "{foo} bar baz"                                            |
|      |     msgstr: "{foo bar baz"                                            |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | >>> "{foo bar baz".format(foo="some thing")                           |
|      | Traceback (most recent call last):                                    |
|      |   File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>                                 |
|      | ValueError: unmatched '{' in format                                   |
|      | >>>                                                                   |
|      |                                                                       |
+------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| E103 | Malformed variable missing left curly-brace                           |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | For example ``foo}`` with missing ``{``.                              |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | Only checks pythonformat variables.                                   |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | Example (Python)::                                                    |
|      |                                                                       |
|      |     Error: malformed variables: foo}                                  |
|      |     msgid: "{foo} bar baz"                                            |
|      |     msgstr: "foo} bar baz"                                            |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | >>> "foo}".format(foo="some thing")                                   |
|      | Traceback (most recent call last):                                    |
|      |   File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>                                 |
|      | ValueError: Single '}' encountered in format string                   |
|      | >>>                                                                   |
|      |                                                                       |
+------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| E201 | Invalid variables in translated string                                |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | There are formatting variable tokens in the *translated* string       |
|      | that aren't in the original string.                                   |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | Example::                                                             |
|      |                                                                       |
|      |     Error: mismatched: invalid variables: {helpurl}                   |
|      |     msgid: "You can find help at {url}"                               |
|      |     msgstr: "You can find help at {helpurl}"                          |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | In this example, "helpurl" won't be in the list of variables to       |
|      | interpolate and this will throw a KeyError. That's equivalent         |
|      | to this:                                                              |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | >>> "You can find help at {helpurl}".format(url="http://example.com") |
|      | Traceback (most recent call last):                                    |
|      |   File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>                                 |
|      | KeyError: 'helpurl'                                                   |
|      | >>>                                                                   |
|      |                                                                       |
+------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| W202 | Missing variables in translated string                                |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | There are formatting variable tokens in the *original* string         |
|      | that aren't in the *translated* string.                               |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | Example::                                                             |
|      |                                                                       |
|      |     Warning: mismatched: missing variables: {url}                     |
|      |     msgid: "You can find help at {url}"                               |
|      |     msgstr: "Get help!"                                               |
|      |                                                                       |
+------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+

Commit message:

Add comment-bas'd ignore
Ye' can noww add an extract'd comment that tells dennis to skip specifi'd
lint rules (orr all th' lint rules) ferr a strin'.

    #. dennis-ignore: *
    #. dennis-ignore: E101,E102

Fixes #34

docs/linting.rst, after:

========
Linting!
========

Help
====

::

    $ dennis-cmd lint --help

This will list the availabe linters and codes, the variable formats and
any additional options available.


Summary
=======

dennis can lint your translated .po files for Python formatting token
issues::

    $ dennis-cmd lint messages.po


Produces output like this::

    (dennis) (M=3b9e7) saturn ~/mozilla/kitsune> dennis-cmd lint locale/it/
    LC_MESSAGES/messages.po
    dennis-cmd version 0.3.3
    >>> Working on: /home/willkg/mozilla/kitsune/locale/it/LC_MESSAGES/mess
    ages.po
    Error: mismatched: invalid variables: %(domain)s
    msgid: Did you know that %(answerer)s is a Firefox user just like you?
    Get started helping other Firefox users by <a href="https://%(host)s/qu
    estions?filter=unsolved"> browsing questions</a> -- you might just make
    someone's day!
    msgstr: Lo sai che %(answerer)s è un utente di Firefox proprio come te?
    Puoi aiutare anche tu gli altri utenti: <a href="https://%(domain)s/que
    stions?filter=unsolved">cerca tra le domande</a> e potrai fare felice u
    no di loro!

    Warning: mismatched: missing variables: %(host)s
    msgid: Did you know that %(answerer)s is a Firefox user just like you?
    Get started helping other Firefox users by <a href="https://%(host)s/qu
    estions?filter=unsolved"> browsing questions</a> -- you might just make
    someone's day!
    msgstr: Lo sai che %(answerer)s è un utente di Firefox proprio come te?
    Puoi aiutare anche tu gli altri utenti: <a href="https://%(domain)s/que
    stions?filter=unsolved">cerca tra le domande</a> e potrai fare felice u
    no di loro!

    Warning: mismatched: missing variables: {0}
    msgid: {0} question
    msgstr[0]: domanda

    Warning: mismatched: missing variables: {0}
    msgid: {0} question
    msgid_plural: {0} questions
    msgstr[1]: domande

    Warning: mismatched: missing variables: {0}
    msgid: {0} answer
    msgstr[0]: risposta

    Warning: mismatched: missing variables: {0}
    msgid: {0} answer
    msgid_plural: {0} answers
    msgstr[1]: risposte

    Warning: mismatched: missing variables: {0}
    msgid: {0} solution
    msgstr[0]: soluzione

    Warning: mismatched: missing variables: {0}
    msgid: {0} solution
    msgid_plural: {0} solutions
    msgstr[1]: soluzioni

    Error: mismatched: invalid variables: {group}
    msgid: Are you sure you want to remove {user} from the document contrib
    utors?
    msgstr: Rimuovere l'utente {user} dai collaboratori per il documento {g
    roup}?

    Totals
      Warnings:     7
      Errors:       2


This runs multiple lint rules on all the strings in the ``.po`` file
generating a list of errors and a list of warnings.

Wait, but that's ugly and hard to read! If you install ``blessings``, it
comes colorized and really easy to parse. All hail blessings!


Skipping rules string-by-string
===============================

In the extracted comment, you can tell dennis to ignore lint rules (or
all lint rules).

Ignore everything::

    #. dennis-ignore: *
    msgid "German makes up 10% of our visitor base"
    msgstr "A német a látogatóbázisunk 10%-át teszi ki"

Ignore specific rules (comma-separated)::

    #. dennis-ignore: E101,E102,E103
    msgid "German makes up 10% of our visitor base"
    msgstr "A német a látogatóbázisunk 10%-át teszi ki"

Ignore everything, but note the beginning of the line is ignored by
dennis so you can tell localizers to ignore the ignore thing::

    #. localizers--ignore this comment. dennis-ignore: *
    msgid "German makes up 10% of our visitor base"
    msgstr "A német a látogatóbázisunk 10%-át teszi ki"


Warnings and Errors
===================

What's a warning?
-----------------

Warnings indicate the translated string is either outdated or a poor
translation, but the string is fine in the sense that it won't kick
up an error in production.

For example, say the original string has a variable, but the
translated string doesn't use that variable.

That's not great and probably means the translated string needs to be
updated, but it won't throw an error in production.


What's an error?
----------------

Errors indicate problems with the translated string that will cause
an error to be thrown. These should get fixed pronto.

For example, when the translated string has a Python variable that's
not in the original string. When this string is interpolated, it will
kick up a Python error. That causes the software to die, users to be
unhappy, tires to go flat, people to work on weekends, mass hysteria,
etc. No one likes that. I don't like that. You probably don't like
that, either.


Table of Warnings and errors
----------------------------

+------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Code | Description                                                           |
+======+=======================================================================+
| E101 | Malformed variable missing type                                       |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | Only checks pythonpercent variables.                                  |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | Example (Python)::                                                    |
|      |                                                                       |
|      |     Error: malformed variables: %(count)                              |
|      |     msgid: "%(count)s view"                                           |
|      |     msgstr: "%(count) view"                                           |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | >>> "%(count) view" % {"count": 5}                                    |
|      | Traceback (most recent call last):                                    |
|      |   File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>                                 |
|      | ValueError: unsupported format character 'v' (0x76) at index 9        |
|      | >>>                                                                   |
|      |                                                                       |
+------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| E102 | Malformed variable missing right curly-brace                          |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | For example ``{foo`` with missing ``}``.                              |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | Only checks pythonformat variables.                                   |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | Example (Python)::                                                    |
|      |                                                                       |
|      |     Error: malformed variables: {foo bar baz                          |
|      |     msgid: "{foo} bar baz"                                            |
|      |     msgstr: "{foo bar baz"                                            |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | >>> "{foo bar baz".format(foo="some thing")                           |
|      | Traceback (most recent call last):                                    |
|      |   File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>                                 |
|      | ValueError: unmatched '{' in format                                   |
|      | >>>                                                                   |
|      |                                                                       |
+------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| E103 | Malformed variable missing left curly-brace                           |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | For example ``foo}`` with missing ``{``.                              |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | Only checks pythonformat variables.                                   |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | Example (Python)::                                                    |
|      |                                                                       |
|      |     Error: malformed variables: foo}                                  |
|      |     msgid: "{foo} bar baz"                                            |
|      |     msgstr: "foo} bar baz"                                            |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | >>> "foo}".format(foo="some thing")                                   |
|      | Traceback (most recent call last):                                    |
|      |   File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>                                 |
|      | ValueError: Single '}' encountered in format string                   |
|      | >>>                                                                   |
|      |                                                                       |
+------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| E201 | Invalid variables in translated string                                |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | There are formatting variable tokens in the *translated* string       |
|      | that aren't in the original string.                                   |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | Example::                                                             |
|      |                                                                       |
|      |     Error: mismatched: invalid variables: {helpurl}                   |
|      |     msgid: "You can find help at {url}"                               |
|      |     msgstr: "You can find help at {helpurl}"                          |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | In this example, "helpurl" won't be in the list of variables to       |
|      | interpolate and this will throw a KeyError. That's equivalent         |
|      | to this:                                                              |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | >>> "You can find help at {helpurl}".format(url="http://example.com") |
|      | Traceback (most recent call last):                                    |
|      |   File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>                                 |
|      | KeyError: 'helpurl'                                                   |
|      | >>>                                                                   |
|      |                                                                       |
+------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| W202 | Missing variables in translated string                                |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | There are formatting variable tokens in the *original* string         |
|      | that aren't in the *translated* string.                               |
|      |                                                                       |
|      | Example::                                                             |
|      |                                                                       |
|      |     Warning: mismatched: missing variables: {url}                     |
|      |     msgid: "You can find help at {url}"                               |
|      |     msgstr: "Get help!"                                               |
|      |                                                                       |
+------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
