docs/recipes.rst, before:

=======
Recipes
=======

.. contents::
   :local:


linting all your .po files
==========================

Sometimes it's good to just get a look at all the .po files and make
sure they're ok:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ dennis-cmd lint locale/


It'll give you a summary at the end.


linting your .pot file
======================

Linting your .pot file can reduce the number of issues that translators
will stumble over. It's good to lint it before you push new strings
to translate:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ dennis-cmd lint locale/templates/LC_MESSAGES/messages.pot


translate .po file for l10n issue detection
===========================================

Use the Dennis translator to find l10n issues in your application
without having to bother your translators.

For example, this translates strings into Pirate for a web application
written in Python:

.. code-block:: bash

   #!/bin/bash

   mkdir -p locale/xx/LC_MESSAGES
   cp locale/templates/LC_MESSAGES/messages.pot \
       locale/xx/LC_MESSAGES/messages.po

   dennis-cmd translate --pipeline=html,pirate --vars=pysprintf,pyformat \
       locale/xx/LC_MESSAGES/messages.po


Now view your application with the ``xx`` locale and behold it's
Piratey wonderfulness!


selective .mo compiling
=======================

The Dennis linter returns an exit code of 1 if the file(s) it's
linting have errors. You can trivially use this to selectively compile
.po files into .mo files iff they are error free:

.. code-block:: bash

   #!/bin/bash

   for pofile in `find locale/ -name "*.po"`
   do
       dir=`dirname "$pofile"`
       stem=`basename "$pofile" .po`

       dennis-cmd lint --errorsonly "$pofile"
       if [ $? -ne 0 ]
       then
           echo "ERRORZ!!! Not compiling $pofile!"

       else
           msgfmt -o "${dir}/${stem}.mo" "$pofile"
       fi
   done


commit-msg git hook
===================

You can automatically translate all future commit messages for your
git project by creating a ``commit-msg`` hook like this:

.. code-block:: bash

   #!/bin/bash

   # Pipe the contents of the commit message file through dennis to
   # a temp file, then copy it back.
   (cat < $1 | dennis-cmd translate - > $1.tmp) && mv $1.tmp $1

   # We always exit 0 even if the dennis-cmd fails. If the dennis-cmd
   # fails, you get your original commit message. No one likes it when
   # shenanigans break your stuff for realz.
   exit 0;


convert your web page into Pirate for April fools day
=====================================================

The Dennis translator can take content from stdin. Translate entire
HTML pages:

.. code-block:: bash

   #!/bin/bash

   (cat < "$1" | dennis-cmd translate --pipeline=html,pirate -) > "pirate_$1"


Or show how you really feel about April fools day on the Internet:

.. code-block:: bash

   #!/bin/bash

   (cat < "$1" | dennis-cmd translate --pipeline=html,haha -) > "haha_$1"

Commit message:

Tweak a bunch o' project summary language
* change summary to be clearerr
* change instances o' .po/.pot/.mo to PO/POT/MO which pofilterr docs also
  use as a convention

docs/recipes.rst, after:

=======
Recipes
=======

.. contents::
   :local:


linting all your PO files
=========================

Sometimes it's good to just get a look at all the PO files and make
sure they're ok:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ dennis-cmd lint locale/


It'll give you a summary at the end.


linting your POT file
=====================

Linting your POT file can reduce the number of issues that translators
will stumble over. It's good to lint it before you push new strings
to translate:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ dennis-cmd lint locale/templates/LC_MESSAGES/messages.pot


translate PO file to find problems with localization
====================================================

Use the Dennis translator to find l10n issues in your application
without having to bother your translators.

For example, this translates strings into Pirate for a web application
written in Python:

.. code-block:: bash

   #!/bin/bash

   mkdir -p locale/xx/LC_MESSAGES
   cp locale/templates/LC_MESSAGES/messages.pot \
       locale/xx/LC_MESSAGES/messages.po

   dennis-cmd translate --pipeline=html,pirate --vars=pysprintf,pyformat \
       locale/xx/LC_MESSAGES/messages.po


Now view your application with the ``xx`` locale and behold it's
Piratey wonderfulness!

There are a variety of transforms which have different properties and
suss out different kinds of localization problems.


selective MO compiling
======================

The Dennis linter returns an exit code of 1 if the file(s) it's
linting have errors. You can trivially use this to selectively compile
PO files into MO files iff they are error free:

.. code-block:: bash

   #!/bin/bash

   for pofile in `find locale/ -name "*.po"`
   do
       dir=`dirname "$pofile"`
       stem=`basename "$pofile" .po`

       dennis-cmd lint --errorsonly "$pofile"
       if [ $? -ne 0 ]
       then
           echo "ERRORZ!!! Not compiling $pofile!"

       else
           msgfmt -o "${dir}/${stem}.mo" "$pofile"
       fi
   done


commit-msg git hook
===================

You can automatically translate all future commit messages for your
git project by creating a ``commit-msg`` hook like this:

.. code-block:: bash

   #!/bin/bash

   # Pipe the contents of the commit message file through dennis to
   # a temp file, then copy it back.
   (cat < $1 | dennis-cmd translate - > $1.tmp) && mv $1.tmp $1

   # We always exit 0 even if the dennis-cmd fails. If the dennis-cmd
   # fails, you get your original commit message. No one likes it when
   # shenanigans break your stuff for realz.
   exit 0;


convert your web page into Pirate for April fools day
=====================================================

The Dennis translator can take content from stdin. Translate entire
HTML pages:

.. code-block:: bash

   #!/bin/bash

   (cat < "$1" | dennis-cmd translate --pipeline=html,pirate -) > "pirate_$1"


Or show how you really feel about April fools day on the Internet:

.. code-block:: bash

   #!/bin/bash

   (cat < "$1" | dennis-cmd translate --pipeline=html,haha -) > "haha_$1"
